== 0.3.5
* Add ripl support
* Fix Formatter#determine_output_class for IO and Hash
* Remove :output_method option for Hirb.enable
* Allow rubygems 1.3.5

== 0.3.4
* Added auto format of array-like objects i.e. ActiveRecord::Relation and Set.
* Fixed bug when Hirb::Console#table is used without Hirb enabled.
* Fixed bug when hirb is running within cron and uses tput.

== 0.3.3
* Added ignore_errors option to ignore view errors and continue with original view.
* Added support for array menu items.
* Added support to ObjectTable for objects with an undefined :send method.

== 0.3.2
* Added irb autocompletions for bond.
* Fixed tests for ruby 1.9.
* Changed tests to use bacon.
* Removed jeweler in Rakefile and pointless $LOAD_PATH manipulation.

== 0.3.1
* Bug fix on DynamicView.class_to_method to allow overrides of default views.
* Modified mongo_mapper view to have _id first.

== 0.3.0
* Added dynamic views.
* Added default table views for the following database classes/modules:
  CouchFoo::Base, CouchPotato::Persistence, CouchRest::ExtendedDocument,
  DBI::Row, DataMapper::Resource, Friendly::Document, MongoMapper::Document, MongoMapper::EmbeddedDocument,
  Mongoid::Document, Ripple::Document and Sequel::Model.
* Added Hirb.add_view and Hirb.add_dynamic_view for easier view manipulation.
* Added :multi_line_nodes option for Tree.
* Fixed :change_fields option bug in Table.
* Fixed no headers and nil fields bug in Table.
* Removed deprecations in Hirb.config_file + View.enable.
* Removed Views classes and View.format_class.
* Removed :return_rows option for Table.

== 0.2.10
* Added multiple options to Menu, most importantly :two_d and :action.
* Improved table resizing algorithm.
* Added merging of configs for multiple Hirb.enable calls.
* Added :max_fields, :hide_empty, :delete_callbacks, :resize, :header_filter
  and :return_rows options to Table.
* Added escaping for \t and \r in Table.
* Renamed Table's :no_newlines option to :escape_special_chars.
* Removed Table's :field_lengths option.
* Removed Menu's :validate_one option.
* Bug fix for table header of a basic array.
* Deprecating Hirb.config_file + View.enable in next release.

== 0.2.9
* Added newline filtering and :no_newlines option for table helper.
* Added default filters for hashes that have hash values.
* Bug fix for deprecated to_a call.

== 0.2.8
* Added callbacks to Hirb::Helpers::Table.
* Added :change_fields option to Hirb::Helpers::Table.
* Added terminal size detection for jruby.
* Bug fix for paging long outputs.
* Bug fix to make unexpected hirb rendering errors more clear.

== 0.2.7
* 2 ruby 1.9 bug fixes.
* Bug fix in :fields of Hirb::Helpers::ObjectTable.
* Made :class option in Hirb::Formatter friendlier to external apps.

== 0.2.6
* Added :description option and added proc ability to :children_method option for helpers.
* Bug fix for no ENV['HOME'] on Windows.
* Bug fix on unaliasing output_method.
* Bug fix on multiple renders of vertical table.

== 0.2.5
* Added ability to use Hirb.enable with non-irb ruby shells.
* Helper configs now recursively merge when inheriting from others via :ancestor option.

== 0.2.4
* Bug fix on UTF-8 support.

== 0.2.3
* Added UTF-8 support for Ruby 1.8.x
* Added :all_fields option to Table helper.

== 0.2.2
* Added a friendlier default (a vertical table) to incorrectly configured tables.
* Added vertical table helper thanks to chrononaut.
* Added detection of :select option from ActiveRecord queries in ActiveRecordTable helper.
* Added handling anything that responds to :to_a in AutoTable helper.

== 0.2.1
* Fixed typo in Hirb::Console.view

== 0.2.0
* Major refactoring with bug fixes and better tests.
* Improved table algorithm to ensure that tables don't wrap.
* Added a pager which detects if output should be paged, Hirb::Pager.
* Added a selection menu, Hirb::Menu
* Following API changes: Hirb::Helpers::Table.max_width removed and config files don't use
  the :view key anymore.
== 0.1.2
* Added tree views.
* Added output_method option to Hirb::View.render_output.

== 0.1.1
* Fixed bug when rendering table with many fields.

== 0.1.0
* Initial release
